# The Book of Earth

[[toc]]

---

## Section 1 - The Rebel Gods

### I. Prometheus
If you don't know who Prometheus is, well, I don't believe you, but okay. Let me tell you the story of the Greek god who by all rights should be the major deity of modern times, because he exemplifies the high points of Western morality, perfectly balancing individualism with societal obligation. But before I tell you about Prometheus, I need to tell you about the Titans, the Greek gods before the Greek gods.

The Titans were led by Cronus, who was the son of Ouranos, the primordial deity of the sky. Cronus overthrew his father and was the big man in charge for a while, and when Ouranos told him he'd one day be overthrown by his son just as he'd done to his father, he decided he wasn't having that and ate his children as they were born. Rhea, his sister and wife, was perhaps understandably upset by this, and when she had a sixth child, she gave Cronus a rock to eat instead. I always wondered whether Cronos had questions afterward regarding the texture and taste of this most recent child, but the myth doesn't mention it, so I'm left with no answers. This sixth child was Zeus, who, sure enough, led a rebellion against Cronus and overthrew him, then locked him up in Tartarus. You have to wonder, would Zeus have even felt the need to do that if Cronus hadn't been an infanticidal, cannibalistic douchebag? Seems like Cronos should have looked inward for the source of his problems, and I'm not talking about the five gods in his belly.

But the thing about this story is Prometheus was a part of Zeus's rebellion. He was one of the Titans, and then joined Zeus's bunch, the Olympians, and overthrew Cronus. This will be important later. For now, just know that, by some accounts, Prometheus came down to Earth after the war and made humans out of clay. You know how it is, you have a stressful day, you need to unwind, so you create a sentient race. Everybody needs a hobby.

By other accounts, all the animals, including humans, just kind of existed, and Prometheus and his brother, Epimetheus, were given the job of handing out different qualities to them. Epimetheus handed out hearing, sight, smell, fur, strength, was very open-handed, and when he came to the last animal on the list, humans, his bag of tricks was empty. Prometheus said no problem, let's give them intelligence and call it a day, and that was that. No matter how you slice it, Prometheus was the reason humans are different from other animals. And he didn't stop helping us there.

Zeus decided if there were going to be intelligent animals, he needed to get something out of it. It's not really detailed why he felt entitled to a slice of our cake, but he sure did, and demanded sacrifices. Prometheus had our backs again, though. He stuffed all the good parts of a bull into the stomach, made it look like a pile of guts, then took all the bones and covered them in fat. Then he went and got Zeus, and he told him he'd made two piles of animal parts, and all Zeus had to do was decide which pile he wanted to be his forever, out of every sacrifice. Zeus chose the pile of bones and fat, and Prometheus found some urgent business a long way off pretty quick, before Zeus figured out he'd been tricked. This was the beginning of Prometheus's quick slide down the crapper.

See, Zeus didn't like that Prometheus had just made him look like an idiot. He decided he'd do something petty and spiteful, because I guess he thought he came out of that not looking quite bad enough, so he took away humanity's ability to make fire. It's not stated exactly how that worked, just that it happened. Well, Prometheus came to the rescue again, of course, he brought us fire back from Mount Olympus, and in some tellings he brought agriculture, science, math, medicine, just about everything we ever needed, really. It was a very nice gesture, all in all, so it kind of sucked that Zeus decided the appropriate reaction was to chain Prometheus up in the Caucasus Mountains and have an eagle come by to rip his liver out every day. Whatever you do, do not piss off Zeus. God of Justice my ass, he was a real prick.

Now, Heracles eventually came and cut him loose, and then Prometheus told Zeus there was a prophecy about one of Zeus's sons overthrowing him, which is really a weird family tradition. The ancient Greeks really had a thing about sons overthrowing fathers, that and incest, they just couldn't get enough. Zeus figured, between the centuries of torture and the heads-up about the impending patricide, they were square, and didn't do anything else to him. Prometheus, for his part, didn't create any more sentient species or trick Zeus into eating offal again, so it was all fine. Don't you just love happy endings?

1: Rebel When You're Right - 3-3 Prometheus rebelled against both Cronus and Zeus, he's quite possibly the only figure in the mythology of any culture who ever rebelled against two distinct divine regimes, he's the poster child for individuality and free thinking. But it's important to note he wasn't just a rebel because he had too big an ego to fall in line, or because he wanted to be cool and edgy. He saved his bucking the system for important stuff, like when the King started eating babies, or when the other King started arbitrarily punishing lesser creatures to show everybody what a big badass he was. It was his willingness to rebel against corrupt authority that defined him, but he had no problem with Zeus's authority when Cronus needed to be taken down.

2: No Dragons - 3/3
While it's not in the story, I can't see Prometheus creating or allowing barriers that don't have a good basis in fact.

3: Think it Through - 1/3
Lots of people want to change the world, but the world likes itself very much just the way it is, thank you, and if you go stepping on toes, eventually the owner of the toes will make you wish you hadn't. You need a plan, you can't just charge in. That's where Prometheus failed. His heart was in the right place, but his head wasn't, and soon after that, his liver wasn't, every day, for centuries. Don't let it happen to you.

4: The Mesopotamian Method 3/3
Prometheus had every chance to just hang out on Mount Olympus and try to hook up with Aphrodite like all his friends, but instead he helped humans. And later on, even Zeus was glad he did, because it turned out Gaia, the Earth, created the Giants, a race that the gods couldn't kill, and they needed humans to do it for them in the Gigantomachy. Can you imagine the side-eyeing Zeus would catch from the other Olympians if that had come up after he kept humans from having fire for centuries? Hermes would be sitting over there like "oh, hey, no problem, gods can't kill Giants, but humans can! I'll just run down and ask one, "they love us, they really enjoy those cold nights without fire after SOMEONE TOOK IT FROM THEM." Then Zeus would make him Prometheus's cellmate, but all the other gods would still be thinking the same thing.

But seriously, this is exactly why you need to elevate others. You can't do everything, and maybe there's no big problem right now, but one day there will be, and also, what are you talking about? There's millions of problems right now, do you live under a rock? And it's perfectly fine to be strong and smart and capable, but 90% of everything is being in the right place at the right time, and the other 10% is having the right help, so solving problems comes down to making sure there are as many strong, smart, capable people as possible. Mathematically speaking, the greater number of people are capable of solving a problem, the greater the chance that one of them will be in the right position to do it. By elevating as many people as you possibly can, you raise the odds of problems being solved, even if you don't solve them yourself. If you think it's not worth anything if you don't get the spotlight, do me a favor and hit yourself in the face with something really heavy.

Total: 10/12
Prometheus is perfect in intent, just short on long-term planning. Honestly, if you're going to be like anybody, be like Prometheus.

### II. Lucifer
In a book on rebellious deities, leaving out the most famous one would just be weird. Would it surprise you at all to know Satan isn't evil? At least, not originally, not in the Bible, but we'll go into the Quran and classical literature after we've got that cleared up. Biblically, Satan may even be a nice guy. We don't know, because he's Heaven's District Attorney, and we only ever see him doing his job. In the original texts, Satan is almost definitely an Angel, and just as good and loyal as Gabriel, Michael, or any of the others, but God's put him in a role that invites hate. Let's explore the big steaming pile of crap that got dumped on this poor guy.

His main moment in the spotlight is in Job, where he keeps telling God "sure, Job is great, because you haven't screwed with him enough yet," and God lets Satan screw with Job. Now, either God is a real prick, or Satan is doing his job and God is allowing it. Actually, scratch that, God is a prick in this story either way, if you kill someone's whole family of course he'll be in a bad mood. But if Satan is fulfilling his role, at least this makes some sense, that God's enemy didn't just walk up and say "bro, I double dog dare you to completely destroy that dude's life," and God just does it. Satan's job, assigned by God, is to find a weakness and see if the person really is loyal and faithful. See it again in Zechariah 3:1-2, Satan is prosecuting Joshua, and God isn't having it. In Matthew 4:3-8, he comes to Jesus and tempts him to sin, just business as usual.

But the real clinch on this idea is I Chronicles 21:1, where Satan caused David to do a census, but oh, wait, that was actually God, in II Samuel 24:1. Either the Bible is having a little trouble figuring out the difference between the Lord of all Evil and the Benevolent Creator of the Universe, or Satan was acting on God's orders, doing his job. This makes sense of the Book of Exodus too, where God keeps hardening Pharaoh's heart when Moses would come tell him what God wanted. Either God was playing an extremely sadistic game of "why you hitting yourself" with Pharaoh, or this was Satan doing what he's supposed to do. Either way, seems a little unfair, God had no reason to be testing Pharaoh's faith, I'm sure Pharaoh worshipped Ra, but Satan acting on God's orders at least keeps it from being complete nonsense, and this reading of it is fully justified by the confusion in Chronicles versus Samuel. The only way none of it makes sense at all is if you see Satan as God's enemy.

And then that's it till Revelation, which we'll talk about later. Up to this point, Satan isn't King of Hell, or a rebel angel, or any of it. Ezekiel 28:11-19, Isaiah 14:12-15, and Luke 10:18 all have traditional interpretations of being a reference to Satan, but I'll tell you what, you go read them, not just those verses, but the entire page they're on, and then you try telling me they're about Satan. They're very much about other things. Satan as a secondary, veiled topic, well, it could be, maybe, but you don't want to play "this verse is clearly about x, but it's also secretly about y" with me, I'll turn your whole religion upside down. Outside of that, there are some scattered references that connect Satan to sin, and Paul in particular will not stop ragging on the poor guy, but we don't get any more insights into his nature or real, concrete actions.

Then there's Revelation. Look, I could write you a whole book about each chapter of Revelation, and you could write a whole book telling all the reasons I'm wrong, and then a third person could come write another book saying how stupid we both are and how obvious the real answer is, and none of us would have solid ground to stand on because we're all trying to analyze what amounts to John having a divinely inspired acid trip. It's never totally clear whether John is describing the past, present, or future, and even if you somehow nailed that down he's still talking in metaphors, and we could discuss them all day and never get anywhere. Remember when highly educated scholars, smarter and better informed than me and you put together, knew exactly what it would look like when the Messiah came, then some carpenter's son came walking up like "okay, guys, I'm here, let's go," and the scholars were all like "uh, haha, no?" Well, interpreting fever dreams sent by God ends like that every single time, so I'll tell you what I THINK it means, but if you think differently, you're perfectly entitled to.

Revelation 12 shows a woman wearing a crown with 12 stars. She's having a baby, and a big dragon, identified as Satan, is sitting there, waiting for the baby to come out so he can eat it, because this baby will rule the Earth with a rod of iron. Well, the baby is born, Angels rescue it, Satan chases them to Heaven but gets booted out along with his Angels, verse 8 saying "there was no longer any place for them in Heaven," which definitely implies they were all allowed there up to that point. So, to me, the woman is all 12 tribes of Judah, shown by the crown, the baby is Jesus, Satan gets fired from his role as divine DA once Jesus comes along, and Satan is understandably upset. If you'd had the same job for thousands of years, you would be too. Then Satan goes off and gives his power to a talking lion with ten horns, seven heads, and bear's feet, and we don't really hear from him anymore, till a spirit like a frog comes from his mouth later, and then he gets locked up for 1,000 years. I told you, you never know what's happening in Revelation.

Pretty much what happened there was Jesus was born, and the new order of the day was mercy, so Satan got kicked out. He started raising a fuss, and God locked him up. Or maybe it wasn't that at all, but you know what it wasn't? Satan rebelling against God before Genesis, because if it was, who the hell are the woman and the baby? Making this work as a primordial event means twisting it and confusing the whole path even more than it already was, making me wonder why God would even tell John anything at all, if he's going to be that unclear about the whole thing. Revelation already borders on completely useless, don't make it worse to fit a theory that's not seen anywhere else in the whole Bible.

Satan is Heaven's Quality Assurance guy, and if you ask me, he got fired 2,000 years ago. Now, given the timelines here, that also means he got out on parole 1,000 years ago, and if you want to say he went back to his old job, trying to prove God still needs him, well, that seems likely enough, given how upset he was about getting fired. He might even have more leeway now than he did before, without management looking over his shoulder, making him fill out reports. Satan can still be exactly who you thought, but the backstory the Church sold us on him was pure bull. Same as any regime, an enemy galvanizes the base, gives us something to unite against, and since God's whole deal is omnipotence, a worthwhile enemy has always been hard to find. The Church had to work with what little they had, and they invented Lucifer out of a divine prosecutor and a handful of verses that had nothing to do with him, because it was either that or bring back Ba'al.

Turning to the Quran, the djinn Iblis is playing the part of Lucifer, in Surah Al-A'Raf 7:11-18 and Surah Sad 38:71-85, which both tell about how Iblis refused to bow to Allah's most recent creation, Man, bringing up all kinds of perfectly valid points about his superiority, but Allah wasn't having it and kicked him out. His position there was always kind of tenuous, a djinn basically being a demon, and far as Allah was concerned, this was the last straw. Other than that, the Quran connects him to sin and establishes him as Allah's enemy a lot more satisfactorily than the Bible does. Turning to classical literature, in Dante's Divine Comedy, Lucifer is barely mentioned, he's frozen in the lowest level of Hell, chewing on traitors. In Goethe's Faust and Marlowe's Doctor Faustus, he's a holder of knowledge, and he'll be glad to let you have it if you just give him your soul.

But it's not until Milton's Paradise Lost where we really see Lucifer as we know him taking shape, a charismatic rebel, with all kinds of great lines about ruling in Hell rather than serving in Heaven, and the mind being its own place, and really just chock full of the kind of stuff that makes teenage rebels all tingly. Let me tell you, every single thing you think you know about Lucifer, Archangels, war in Heaven, anything, comes from this poem. Paradise Lost had a more profound effect on modern Christianity than the Bible did, and if you've read them both, you know it's true. Not that that's a bad thing, it's actually a really great read, but a poem from 1667 just doesn't carry the same theological weight as the Hebrew texts that predate most of the world's written records, does it? But technically there's nothing stopping it from being true, maybe Milton had a prophetic vision, which would really just make the Church of Satan an even bigger stain than it already is.

See, Lucifer was all set up to be a bringer of knowledge and a rival to God. Given Satan's unclear position in the Bible and all the Biblical events that most definitely did not happen, from a scholarly, historical perspective, like the Flood, the conquest of Canaan, just really any number of things, it would have been laughably easy to paint the Bible as a book of lies, exaggerations, and omissions, a divine smear campaign against God's rival, who'd rather see humanity progress than be ignorant animals living in a garden. Lucifer could have been Prometheus all over again in a religion that promotes progress, the responsibility of higher beings to help the lower, and rejection of tyranny. Instead, the Church of Satan is a Halloween mask for Atheists who find there's not quite enough shock value in saying they don't believe in God. It's a bunch of teenage rebels making Internet memes, and a waste of the religion that could have easily swept the Western world.

Not that it's entirely Anton LaVey's fault. All he really did was come along in 1966 and establish a standard for Atheists to rally around, promoting hedonism along with ethics that weren't tied to worship of a deity or fear of punishment after death. It was really the absolute twats who come after him that ruined it, doing things like co-opting the Cross of Saint Peter, which I guarantee you they did not know was and still is a thing, they just thought it would piss off Christians if they flipped the cross upside down. Or do you really think these guys deeply resonated with themes of humility and devotion to Christ? No, I didn't think so. It's really a prime example of what the Church of Satan is all about, shock value, contrarianism, and ignorant kids trying to get a reaction.

And it is just such as epic waste. Lucifer had the recognition value. He had the backstory, mostly, just needed some easy, minor setups. The Church of Satan could have been a religion of helping the less fortunate, striving for progress, and challenging authority you think it's out of line, but instead it's just another form of teenagers writing dirty words inside bathroom stalls. It could have stood for something, if it had been run by serious people from the jump, and instead it stands for nothing. And it's really too late to take it back, it's firmly entrenched. So if any of you go off and start a Church of Prometheus, how about you take a good, long, hard look at Anton LaVey, and do your very best not to do one single thing he did?

1: Rebel When You're Right - 3/3
I'll be rating the Lucifer of popular perception here, since we've already explored why the Biblical Satan really isn't what we're looking for. And look, no matter how offensive you find it, God had no right to keep humans as ignorant animals. Lucifer did us a solid here. Can't speak on his rebellion in Heaven, we don't get a clear view of whether he was actually being oppressed or not, but the Heaven scenes of Paradise Lost were the worst parts of the poem, so can't really blame the poor guy.

2: No Dragons - 1/3
Just like Prometheus, this is inference, not actual myth, but come on. This guy would 100% throw up a false roadblock if he felt the need, no hesitation.

3: Think it Through - 3/3
His battle in Paradise Lost was actually a fine plan, God just beat it by being God. Course, since this was God's first fight ever, Lucifer couldn't be expected to know that would happen.

4: The Mesopotamian Method - 2/3
Lucifer isn't helping us because he cares about collaboration, he just wants to piss God off. But he does effectively collaborate with other Angels, so he sees the value of alliance, he just doesn't think we've got anything to offer. Gatekeeping loses you a point, big guy, everybody has something to contribute.

Total: 9/12
Stripped down to basics, Lucifer is really just Prometheus, but a little bit more of a prick.

### III. Sun Wukong
Sun Wukong, the Monkey King, is a figure in Chinese mythology. He was born from a stone egg on a mountain, and the light from his eyes got the attention of the Jade Emperor. When his people reported back that it was only a stone monkey, he shrugged and went back to his work. The monkey found other monkeys to play with, and he grew up with them. They liked to play in a stream, and one day they decided that whoever could find the source of the stream would be their king. Well, I don't want to ruin the suspense, but the stone monkey did it.

One day one of his friends died, and he was so upset that he struck off into the world to find an immortal to teach him how to beat death. He found a village, but everyone was afraid of him, they'd never seen a stone monkey before, they ran away and the monkey wandered off into the woods. He heard a woodcutter whistling a tune, and he liked it so much he asked the woodcutter where he learned it, and found out he'd picked it up from an immortal in a temple in the forest. Well, the monkey followed the directions, found the temple, and met Puti Zushi, who refused to let him in at first, so the monkey camped outside the door for months. Puti Zushi was impressed with his determination and let him in, giving him the name Sun Wukong. Puti Zushi taught Sun Wukong a lot, and ended his education by telling him never to show off his skills, because people would want to learn, and this knowledge can't go to just anyone.

Sun Wukong knows he needs a weapon out in the world, but can't find one he likes. He eventually goes off to the palace of Ao Guang, a Dragon King, who tries to turn him away, but Sun Wukong barges in anyway. Ao Guang sees that Sun Wukong is too strong to be turned away, so he has his servants bring out weapons for the monkey to choose from. He finally picks the golden-banded staff, a two-ton stick that can be as big as a pillar or as small as a needle. He also gets a golden chainmail shirt, a phoenix feather cap, and cloudwalking boots.

Sun Wukong goes back home, and he expands his kingdom to include a lot more animals than just his monkey tribe. But Ao Guang doesn't like that this monkey just walked in and took his best weapon and armor, and sent Hell to collect his soul, which is a really useful connection to have, I can think of a few people I'd like to try it on. Sun Wukong scrubs his name out of the Book of Life and Death, along with the names of his friends, so he can't die and his soul can't be collected. Well, the Jade Emperor gets involved at this point, bringing his whole army down on Sun Wukong. But Sun Wukong has too good a weapon and too many soldiers, and he beats back the armies of Heaven.

The Jade Emperor finally decides to ally with Sun Wukong and make him a part of the empire to solve the problem. He's made Protector of Horses, and finds he's the stable boy for the cloud horses, so he frees them and returns to Earth, giving himself the title of Great Sage, Heaven's Equal, because he's not very good at subtlety. The Jade Emperor agrees he can use that title and makes him Guardian of the Heavenly Peach Garden, and Sun Wukong accepts, but finds he's just a gardener who's not invited to Heaven's social events. He gets drunk, steals a bunch of stuff, and runs back to Earth. The Jade Emperor gets his armies together to crush him, but it doesn't start off any better for him the second time around. Sun Wukong beats all the armies till Erlang Shen, the Emperor's nephew, fights him. They're evenly matched, there's a lot of shapeshifting, and finally Laozi throws his diamond jade ring at Sun Wukong from behind, which knocks him out, so that must have been one big damn ring.

Well, the Emperor tries several ways of killing Sun Wukong, but none of them work out, and eventually he's put in a forge to be melted down. This has the opposite effect, 49 days later he comes out, fully hardened and now able to see evil with his fiery golden eyes. He goes after the Emperor, who summons Buddha. Sun Wukong argues to Buddha that he should be the new Emperor, and Buddha says he can prove his power by sitting in his palm, then jumping out. Sun Wukong sees no problem with that, sits in Buddha's palm, jumps, runs, and cartwheels as far as he can, and reaches five giant pillars. He thinks this must be the end of the Universe, so he pees on one, as anyone would if they found the pillars at the end of the Universe, but they turn out to be Buddha's fingers. He turns his hand into a mountain, trapping Sun Wukong.

Well, he stays there for 500 years, until a priest, Tang Sanzang, comes by. He needs protection on his road trip, and Sun Wukong can kick Heaven's ass, so he's the obvious choice. He frees Sun Wukong on the condition that he helps the priest in return, and puts a golden circlet on the monkey's head that tightens when the priest chants, to keep him in line. They take a long trip to India and back to China, Sun Wukong learns about Buddhism, and in the end achieves Buddhahood. He gives up on being the new Emperor and settles for being the King of all Monkeys, which is probably a lot more fun anyway.

1: Rebel When You're Right - 1/3
He really created his own problems when he demanded equipment from Ao Guang, and once that was dealt with, should have just gone back to his monkeys and forgot about Heaven and the Emperor. But he got all caught up in his ego, and that got him into trouble.

2: No Dragons - 3/3
Sun Wukong doesn't accept limitations, he even sees the Jade Emperor's position as being up for debate.

3: Think it Through - 1/3
He's not a thinker, he'd rather hit things till they break. The fact that it works out for him so often doesn't make it the right answer.

4: The Mesopotamian Method - 3/3
He's always willing to work with others, he just gets cranky when he feels undervalued. Understandable, the Jade Emperor really was being a prick, but the right answer was to walk away, not pick a fight with God.

Total: 8/12
He lost a lot of points for choosing force over strategy, and for choosing ego over retreat. He didn't need these problems, he created them himself. The lesson here is to say "maybe I can, but should I?" He eventually made it to Heaven, but he had to learn he couldn't punch his way in.

### IV. My Greatest Weakness
I know I'm not a trickster god, but I wanted to close this section with my story, because maybe it'll help you fine-tune your application of Marzodian philosophy. If you see my wrong turns, maybe you won't get lost, or at least you'll get lost in new and exciting ways.

Every time it came up, I found I didn't have an answer to the question "what's your greatest weakness?" I knew I must have one, but I could never find it, all the weaknesses that came to mind were things I had a decent handle on. But I also knew enough about psychology to know that everyone's the hero of their own story, and that everything about a person gets a positive spin in their own mind. Still, this question beat me every time, I had nothing. Can you imagine how surprised I was to find that it was also my greatest strength?

Let's rewind. When I was a kid, I was homeschooled, and grew up in near complete isolation, my family were the only ones I interacted with. Now, there were occasional kids' groups my parents would put me in, and we went to church a lot, but I wasn't actually getting socialized there, I'd just stay quiet and sit through it till it was over. That led to all the problems you'd expect, I had no social skills at all, and my initial instinct to just sit through events that involved other people was reinforced by the bullying that naturally comes from being the odd one out in a group of kids. So it was established early on that it was me against the group, whoever that group might be.

My only social interaction was online, on forums, which were kind of the early version of social media. There, it's edgy contrarianism that gets you noticed, the ability to tell someone how wrong and stupid they are anytime they express an opinion. Course, this spoke really well to a smart kid who couldn't fit in, I'd definitely found my people. And my hero was House, from House MD, which if you don't know is a show about a doctor who's a complete sociopath, and I modeled my entire personality on him, training myself to go straight for cold, surface-level logic and always say the most abrasive thing possible, because he did it, and he was always right. He was always smarter than anyone, and if he could pull it off, so could I.

### IV. My Greatest Weakness
I know I'm not a trickster god, but I wanted to close this section with my story, because maybe it'll help you fine-tune your application of Marzodian philosophy. If you see my wrong turns, maybe you won't get lost, or at least you'll get lost in new and exciting ways.

Every time it came up, I found I didn't have an answer to the question "what's your greatest weakness?" I knew I must have one, but I could never find it, all the weaknesses that came to mind were things I had a decent handle on. But I also knew enough about psychology to know that everyone's the hero of their own story, and that everything about a person gets a positive spin in their own mind. Still, this question beat me every time, I had nothing. Can you imagine how surprised I was to find that it was also my greatest strength?

Let's rewind. When I was a kid, I was homeschooled, and grew up in near complete isolation, my family were the only ones I interacted with. Now, there were occasional kids' groups my parents would put me in, and we went to church a lot, but I wasn't actually getting socialized there, I'd just stay quiet and sit through it till it was over. That led to all the problems you'd expect, I had no social skills at all, and my initial instinct to just sit through events that involved other people was reinforced by the bullying that naturally comes from being the odd one out in a group of kids. So it was established early on that it was me against the group, whoever that group might be.

My only social interaction was online, on forums, which were kind of the early version of social media. There, it's edgy contrarianism that gets you noticed, the ability to tell someone how wrong and stupid they are anytime they express an opinion. Course, this spoke really well to a smart kid who couldn't fit in, I'd definitely found my people. And my hero was House, from House MD, which if you don't know is a show about a doctor who's a complete sociopath, and I modeled my entire personality on him, training myself to go straight for cold, surface-level logic and always say the most abrasive thing possible, because he did it, and he was always right. He was always smarter than anyone, and if he could pull it off, so could I.
